---
title: Gender Neutral Uniforms
date: '2023-01-25'
author: Siri Adusimilli
---

<h6>
The education system shapes a child's life. When they're not at school, they're learning and preparing for their future. Ensuring they feel safe, comfortable, and supported is of utmost importance to parents. A major way schools support students is with school uniforms, which promote equality and encourage identification with the school. Uniforms are also symbolic in acknowledging that everyone is equal at this institution. 
</h6>
<br>

<h6>

</h6>
<br>
Some students might not like school uniforms. In particular, some uniforms are split along gender lines - meaning that female and male uniforms are different from one another. Female school uniforms often consist of skirts, while male uniforms primarily consist of pants or shorts. Although there are two genders, in this case, there are actually many more: non-binary (those who don't identify as either "male" or "female"), transgender, gender fluid (a mixture of two genders), and many others. Students who fall into these categories might not feel comfortable wearing clothes marketed to only one gender. 
<h6>
I propose that schools should have a gender-neutral dress code. Furthermore, enforcing such a dress code would not only be essential to make those who do not identify as male or female comfortable but could also help unify all students, eliminating any chance for division between them. It also helps promote equality in general - especially gender equality pertaining to the 5th SDG of the UN. 
</h6>
<br>

<h6>
While many countries may not be ready to accept young boys choosing to wear skirts, making the uniforms gender-neutral certainly is a step in the right direction. It's an important first step, and it'll take some time--if not decades--before we truly allow everyone to dress according to their identity. Until then, we can work on protecting younger generations from the effects of gender-based stereotypes.
</h6>
<br>
