---
title: Drastic Floods in Bangalore
date: '2022-10-12'
author: Anika Vadala
---

<br>
<h6>
Bangalore has been experiencing heavy rains since September 3rd. The downpour is expected to last till the ninth of September. A recorded 13.16 cm of rainfall descended on Bangalore on the 4th of September, calculated by the Indian Meteorological Department. Water-clogged streets, railways, and basements make travel difficult and put lives in danger. 75 localities have been impacted, 10000 residents have been stranded and an estimated 20,000 damaged vehicles. A young woman died as she fell off of her scooter and into a waterlogged road and allegedly got electrocuted. 
</h6>
<br>
<h6>
Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai claims to have given instructions to drain water out from the roads at the earliest possibility. The Karnataka government will utilize 600 crores to manage rain and flood situations across the state, with a designated 300 crore specifically for Bangalore. Funds will be used to restore roads, electric poles, schools, etc. The Chief Minister also criticized the Opposition (mainly Congress)  parties politicizing Bangalore's condition. “When the Congress was in power, there was corruption in the construction of drains and encroachments. Let us not discuss such issues at this hour. All of us must come together and help the people in distress. The BJP and the Opposition parties can talk about everything on the floor of the Assembly later. The present time is not to do politics in the name of rains but to extend a helping hand,” said Bommai in regard to Congress. On September 6th, the Indian Meteorological department predicted widespread light to moderate rains over Karnataka, with thunderstorms with lightning and very heavy rains likely at isolated places, including Bengaluru and its outskirts.
</h6>
